
Why Vimeo?
------------

Some of you may be asking why I chose to put my videos on Vimeo, while
in the past, I have used YouTube.

In many ways, YouTube is a good technology and may be better than
Vimeo.  However, YouTube uses ads and watch time to generate
revenue. As a result, it has an incentive to find and recommend videos
that will not only get clicks but will be watched for a long time. As
a result, YouTube is not free. We pay for it with our attention.

Vimeo on the other hand charges me, content producer, to upload
videos. It does not have algorithmic recommendation and does not
generate revenue (as far as I know) by monetizing your attention.

This is not a judgment or criticism of anyone who uses YouTube for
their work or entertainment. I watch things on YouTube all the
time. However, I do not want to contribute to you spending more time
on it with my course content. This is my personal choice. I have come
to my decision through my research and related reading on algorithmic
bias and ethical technology.

Since YouTube monetizes attention, they found that novel content peeks
curiosity. In fact, people who believe in conspiracy theories tend to
watch videos a long time, so YouTube's algorithms are happy recommend
these excessively. Furthermore, YouTube is a sight of extensive
political ad buying and many people will be exposed to ads that may
bother them. I support the maxim that "free speech is not equal to
free reach." My main concern is that I have no say on what my values
are and not be exposed to content that goes against my values. This is
a system implementation decision on YouTube's part. While YouTube has
taken some steps to improve this, there is still a long way to go.

So, this is why we are on Vimeo. Even if it does not have some
features you are used to on YouTube, hopefully we can help improve it
by using it more. If you want to learn more about this topic, you can
follow some of the links below.


- Listen to episode 4 of this podcast, but all the episodes are quite good: `Your undivided attention podcast (Episode 4) https://www.humanetech.com/podcast`_

- Blog from past engineer of YouTube `Algorithmic Transparency https://algotransparency.org`_
 
- One of the best articles on this topic: `YouTube, the Great Radicalizer https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/10/opinion/sunday/youtube-politics-radical.html`_
